---

## Section 4: Command Line Arguments with `sys.argv`

Sometimes you want to run a script *with extra information provided up front*,
rather than asking for input during the script. That’s where
*command line arguments* come in.

Python lets you access these arguments using a special list called `sys.argv`.

---

### What Are Command Line Arguments?

Command line arguments are words you type *after* the name of your Python script
when you run it.

Example:

```bash
$ python3 greet.py Ada
```

In this case, `Ada` is a command line argument that the script can use.

---

### Accessing Arguments with `sys.argv`

To access command line arguments in Python, you need to import the `sys` module:

```python
import sys

print(sys.argv)
```

If you run this file with:

```bash
$ python3 example.py first second third
```

You’ll see:

```
['example.py', 'first', 'second', 'third']
```

> **Helpful Hint:**
> `sys.argv` is a **list of strings**. The first item is always the script name
> itself.

---

### Using Arguments in Your Script

```python
import sys

name = sys.argv[1]
print("Hello,", name)
```

This script:

* imports the `sys` module
* accesses the 1st argument provided by the user

---

### Multiple artuments

On the command line each argument will be separated by spaces.

So if you call your program like:

```bash
$ python some.py one two three
```

Inside your program, you could access them like the following:

```python
import sys
var1 = sys.argv[1]
var2 = sys.argv[2]
var3 = sys.argv[3]
```

But what if you wanted the value in the argument to have a space? Use quotes.

```bash
$ python some.py one "the second" three
```

Then you would see that (using hte sample python code above), `var` would
now be equal to the combined letters of `the second`.


There are other topics that we will deal with later, including counting the
arguments, handling errors, even converting the user input into something more
useful.

Now that you’ve learned how to run Python in the REPL, as scripts, and with
command line arguments, you're ready to start learning the Python language
itself.

